.TH TIGEXP 8 "12 August 2003" "Security" "Administrator Commands"
.SH NAME
tigexp \- UNIX Security Checker Explanation Generator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tigexp
.IR msgid " [" msgid [ msgid ...]]
.LP
.B tigexp
.RB [ -f | -F ]
.RI [ security_report ]
.LP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
\fBTigexp\fR is used to generate explanations of the output from the
\fBTiger\fR security checking package.  In the first form,
.B tigexp
will generate an explanation of each of the message ids listed.
In the second form, the security report specified will be scanned
and explanations generated.  The
.B "\-f"
option will generate one explanation for each unique message id
in the security report, whereas the
.B "\-F"
option will output the security report with explanations inserted
after each entry in the report.
.PP
There are five different message levels produced by \fBTiger\fR. Each of
the message levels is the last letter of the message id. The levels are:
.TP
.I ALERT
A message of this level indicates that \fBTiger\fR has detected a
possible intrusion attempt or troublesome misconfiguration which can
expose the whole system to attacks.
.TP
.I FAIL
Messages of this level indicate a violation of a generic security policy
or a possible intrusion. Appropriate action should be taken to fix this
security issue.
.TP
.I WARN
Messages of this level indicate a security issue which should be checked
further and might indicate a probable vulnerability or exposure. Most
.B Tiger
messages appear in this category.
.TP
.I INFO
These includes information messages which are not necessarily a security
violation but might be useful for the administrator. Note that the
.I tigerrc
configuration file through the
.I Tiger_Show_INFO_Msgs
option determines whether or not
.B Tiger
shows these items. The default behaviour is to
.I not
show them.
.TP
.I ERROR
These messages are errors in the execution of
.B Tiger
(or any of its scripts), this is probably due to a misconfiguration
in the program, because of a problem in the installation or because
a file needed for the test is missing. The script who outputs this error
should be investigated further.
.TP
.I CONFIG
Messages with this level inform of stages in the configuration process
of \fBTiger\fR. They are not errors (otherwise
.I ERROR
would be used) but notices for the user running the program explaining, for
example, which configuration might be used.
.SS OPTIONS
.TP
.B "\-f"
Scan the indicated security report and generate explanations of
it.  One explanation will be generated for each unique message
id in the security report.  If the name of a security report is not
given, then the report is read from stdin.
.TP
.B "\-F"
Output the indicated security report with explanations inserted
after each entry in the report.  If the name of a security report
is not given, then the report is read from stdin.
.LP
.SH FILES
$TIGERHOMEDIR/doc/explain.idx
.LP
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tiger (8)
.LP
.SH BUGS
If the explanation index is out of date, it doesn't recognize it
and generates junk.
